名詞解釋(5-8句話說完)
平台（platform）
系統平台是指在電腦裡讓軟體執行的系統環境，包括硬體環境和軟體環境。
The system platform refers to the system environment in which the software is executed in the computer, including the hardware environment and the software environment.
系統平台包括一台電腦的硬體體系結構、作業系統、運行時庫等。
The system platform includes the hardware architecture, operating system, runtime library, etc. of a computer.

軟體即服務（Software as a Service, SaaS）
軟體即服務是一種軟體交付模式，不須經過傳統的安裝步驟即可使用，軟體及其相關的資料集中代管於雲端服務。
Software-as-a-Service is a software delivery model that can be used without going through traditional installation steps. Software and its related data are centrally hosted in cloud services.

虛擬化（virtualization） Type 1 vs. Type 2 hypervisor
虛擬化是將電腦的各種實體資源，予以抽象、轉換後呈現出來並可供分割、組合為一個或多個電腦組態環境。
Virtualization is the abstraction and conversion of various physical resources of a computer, which can be divided and combined into one or more computer configuration environments.
類型 I：原生或裸機類型 
可以本地安裝並直接在物理主機上運行
Can be installed locally and run directly on the physical host
II：寄居或代管
無法本地安裝且需要作業系統才能在物理主機上運行的管理程
A hypervisor that cannot be installed locally and requires an operating system to run on a physical host

封閉原始碼（closed source）
是軟件的發布者或其他人保留某些許可使用、修改、共享修改或共享軟件的權利，
Proprietary softwais computer software for which the software's publisher or another person reserves some licensing rights to use, modify, share modifications, or share the software, 
限制用戶使用該軟件的自由的計算機軟件
restricting user freedom with the software they lease

開放原始碼（open source）
開放原始碼是指一種計算機程序，其中源代碼可供公眾使用或對其原始設計進行修改。
 open source refers to a computer program in which the source code is available to the general public for use or modification from its original design.
 
檔案副檔名（file extension）
一個副檔名是跟在主檔名後面的，由一個分隔符號分隔。
A file extension follows the main filename, separated by a delimiter.
副檔名重要的作用是讓系統決定當使用者想打開這個檔案的時候用哪種軟體執行
The important role of the file extension is to let the system decide which software to use when the user wants to open the file

伺服器作業系統（server operating system）
服務器操作系統在客戶端-服務器架構中的服務器上運行，並為網絡內的客戶端機器提供多種服務
A server operating system runs on a server in a client-server architecture and provides multiple services to client machines within the network.

DNS server
網域名稱系統將人們可讀取的網域名稱 轉換為機器可讀取的 IP 地址。
The domain name system will be replaced with a readable domain name called a machine-readable IP address.

web server
網路伺服器可以指軟體、也可以指硬體、還可以指它們共同運作的狀態。
A web server can refer to software, hardware, or the state in which they work together.
硬體，是存放網路伺服器軟體、還有網站檔案的電腦
Hardware is a computer that stores web server software and website files
軟體
透過域名訪問託管的網站、並將其內容遞送到終端用戶的設備上。
Access hosted websites through domain names and deliver their content to end users' devices.

database server
數據庫服務器是用於提供數據庫服務的數據庫軟件的機器
A database server is a machine for database software that provides database services

ftp server
FTP 伺服器是讓檔案從某部裝置傳遞至另一部裝置的軟體應用程式。
An FTP server is a software application that allows files to be passed from one device to another.

揮發性記憶體（volatile memory）
當電流中斷後，所儲存的資料便會消失的電腦記憶體。
When the current is interrupted, the stored data will disappear in the computer memory.

非揮發性記憶體（non-volatile memory）
電源供應中斷後，記憶體所儲存的資料也不會消失
The data stored in the memory will not disappear after the power supply is interrupted

RAM（random access memory，隨機存取記憶體）
隨機存取存儲器是與 CPU 直接交換數據的內部存儲器。
Random access memory is the internal memory that exchanges data directly with the CPU.
它可以隨時讀寫，而且速度很快，通常作為操作系統或其他正在運行中的程式的臨時資料存儲媒介。
It can be read and written at any time, is fast, and is often used as a temporary data storage medium for the operating system or other running programs.

快取（cache）
存取速度比一般隨機存取記憶體快的一種RAM，
A type of RAM whose access speed is faster than that of general random access memory,

memory hirearchy
在電腦架構下儲存系統階層的排列順序。
Stores the arrangement order of the system hierarchy under the computer architecture.
暫存器,快取,主記憶體,磁碟儲存
Register,cache,Main memory,Hard Disk Drive

多工緩衝處理（spooling）
資料緩衝，指傳輸資料的過程中，將資料存放在臨時工作區中
It is a kind of data buffering, which refers to storing the data in the temporary work area during the process of data transmission.
